Abstract A total of 370 ticks, encompassing 7 species from 4 genera, were collected during 2002–2006 from domestic animals and vegetation in the Taza region of northeastern Morocco. Rickettsial DNA was identified in 101 ticks (27%) by sequencing PCR products of fragments of the citrate synthase and outer membrane protein genes of Rickettsia spp. Seven rickettsiae of the spotted fever group were identified, including 4 pathogens: R. aeschlimannii in Hyalomma marginatum marginatum, R. massiliae in Rhipicephalus sanguineus, R. slovaca in Dermacentor marginatus, and R. monacensis in Ixodes ricinus. Two suspected pathogens were also detected (R. raoultii in D. marginatus and R. helvetica in I. ricinus). An incompletely described Rickettsia sp. was detected in Haemaphysalis spp. ticks. Tick-borne rickettsioses are infections caused by obligate intracellular gram-negative bacteria of the spotted fever group (SFG) in the genus Rickettsia and the order Rickettsiales. These zoonoses are now recognized as emerging vector-borne infections worldwide (1,2). They share characteristic clinical features, including fever, headache, rash, and occasional eschar formation at the site of the tick bite. Although these diseases have been known for a long time, they have been poorly investigated in northern Africa, including Morocco (2). Two human tick-borne SFG rickettsioses are known to occur in Morocco. Mediterranean spotted fever, caused by Rickettsia conorii conorii, is transmitted by the brown dog tick, Rhipicephalus sanguineus, which is well adapted to urban environments and is endemic to the Mediterranean area (2). In Morocco, clinicians usually consider patients with spotted fever as having Mediterranean spotted fever. However, in 1997, Beati et al. isolated a new rickettsia, R. aeschlimannii, from Hyalomma marginatum marginatum ticks collected in Morocco (3). In 2002, human infection with this rickettsia was reported in a patient returning from Morocco to France (4). To date, all studies on rickettsioses conducted in Morocco have been based on only clinical and serologic features. However, the number of representatives of the genus Rickettsia and the number of newly described rickettsioses have increased in recent decades because of improved cell culture isolation techniques and extensive use of bacterial detection and identification by molecular biologic techniques (2). Comparison of the sequences of PCR-amplified fragments of genes encoding 16S rRNA, citrate synthase (gltA), or outer membrane protein (ompA) has become a reliable method for identifying rickettsiae in arthropods, including ticks (1). Therefore, our aim was to detect and characterize rickettsiae in hard ticks collected in Morocco by using PCR and sequence analysis of amplified products and to discuss their potential threat for humans and animals.