Objective To evaluate the impact of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on rheumatology practice. Method A cross-sectional web survey was designed by the members of the Arab League of Associations for Rheumatology (ArLAR), validated by its scientific committee and disseminated through e-mail and social media. It included close-ended questions about the impact of the pandemic on the rheumatology activities, including outpatient visits and hospitalizations (in percentage, 100% corresponds to complete suspension) and open-ended questions about unmet needs. Univariate and multivariable logistic regression analyses were used to evaluate the predictors of impact. Suggestions were developed to improve the practice. Results A total of 858 rheumatologists were included in the analysis (27.3% of registered in ArLAR), 37% were 35–44 years old, 60% were females, and 48% worked in the private sector. The impact of COVID-19 was a decrease of 69% in hospitalizations, 65% in outpatient clinic, 56% in infusion centers, and 43% in income. It was associated with the region (highest in the Gulf), use of telemedicine, impact on income and practice sector (lowest in private). There was a hydroxychloroquine shortage in 47%. Telemedicine was mostly based on traditional telephone contacts and e-mails and reimbursed in 12%. Fifteen rheumatologists (1.8%) were infected and 156 cases of COVID-19 were reported among patients. The top-cited unmet needs in rheumatology practice were access to drugs and a telemedicine platform. Conclusions The negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on rheumatology practice may compromise rheumatic diseases control. Better access to drugs and providing telemedicine platforms are recommended to improve the practice. Key Points • The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant negative impact on the rheumatology practice, including access to outpatient clinic, hospitalization, and to anchor drugs. • The compromised access to rheumatology care may jeopardize the control of chronic rheumatic diseases and the long-term prognosis. • Better access to drugs and providing telemedicine platforms are strongly recommended.