Abstract During the past 20 years, cutaneous leishmaniasis has emerged as a major public health threat in Morocco. We describe distribution of Leishmania major and L. tropica in Morocco and a new focus of cutaneous leishmaniasis due to L. infantum. We recommend using molecular techniques to diagnose suspected leishmaniasis cases. Leishmaniasis, a vectorborne parasitic disease, affects 1.5–2 million people annually. In >100 countries whose populations are at risk for the disease, the disease inflicts a high economic cost (1,2). Additionally, large-scale emergence and reemergence have been recently reported in many Mediterranean countries, including Morocco (1,3). Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) caused by Leishmania major has been reported in Morocco since 1914 (4); until recently, however, it was largely confined to arid Saharan regions (4,5). In 2001, the Moroccan Ministry of Health (MMH) reported 2,028 CL cases caused by L. major and L. tropica (6). Of the 3 clinically important Leishmania species (L. major, L. tropica, L. infantum), L. tropica has the largest geographic distribution and is considered a public health threat by the MMH. L. tropica CL has been reported in Azilal, Essaouira, Taza, Fes, the province of Chichaoua, and central Morocco (5,7–10). Accurate diagnosis and treatment of CL requires positive identification of the causative species of parasite (11). Often, however, traditional diagnostic methods such as analysis of clinical symptoms, microscopic identification, and parasite culture are performed in place of molecular diagnostic techniques, such as PCR. Problematically, all Leishmania species have similar morphology, and several species capable of causing both CL and visceral leishmaniasis (VL) may exist in the same locales. We update the current epidemiologic profile of Leishmania spp. in Morocco by using archived clinical samples tested by PCR. We provide economic and epidemiologic rationales for our recommendation that species-specific identification be performed for all cases of suspected leishmaniasis.