Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is among the world’s earliest domesticated and most important crop plants. It is diploid with a large haploid genome of 5.1 gigabases (Gb). Here we present an integrated and ordered physical, genetic and functional sequence resource that describes the barley gene-space in a structured whole-genome context. We developed a physical map of 4.98 Gb, with more than 3.90 Gb anchored to a high-resolution genetic map. Projecting a deep whole-genome shotgun assembly, complementary DNA and deep RNA sequence data onto this framework supports 79,379 transcript clusters, including 26,159 ‘high-confidence’ genes with homology support from other plant genomes. Abundant alternative splicing, premature termination codons and novel transcriptionally active regions suggest that post-transcriptional processing forms an important regulatory layer. Survey sequences from diverse accessions reveal a landscape of extensive single-nucleotide variation. Our data provide a platform for both genome-assisted research and enabling contemporary crop improvement. An integrated high-resolution genetic, physical and shotgun sequence assembly of the barley genome, one of the earliest domesticated and most important crops, is described; it will provide a platform for genome-assisted research and future crop improvement. Two groups in this issue report the compilation and analysis of the genome sequences of major cereal crops — bread wheat and barley — providing important resources for future crop improvement. Bread wheat accounts for one-fifth of the calories consumed by humankind. It has a very large and complex hexaploid genome of 17 Gigabases. Michael Bevan and colleagues have analysed the genome using 454 pyrosequencing and compared it with diploid ancestral and progenitor genomes. The authors discovered significant loss of gene family members upon polyploidization and domestication, and expansion of gene classes that may be associated with crop productivity. Barley is one of the earliest domesticated plant crops. Although diploid, it has a very large genome of 5.1 Gigabases. Nils Stein and colleagues describe a physical map anchored to a high-resolution genetic map, on top of which they have overlaid a deep whole-genome shotgun assembly, cDNA and RNA-seq data to provide the first in-depth genome-wide survey of the barley genome.