This study aimed to investigate the proxy-reported Health related quality of life (HRQOL) and its determinants in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). It was hypothesized that HRQOL would decrease with worsening disease and disability. Data were available in cross-sectional study on children and adolescents with JIA according to the ILAR criteria. Patient demographics, type of JIA, clinical determinants and laboratory parameters relating to JIA were obtained for each patient. Functional disability was assessed using the parent’s or children’s version of the child health assessment questionnaire (CHAQ). The HRQOL was evaluated using the juvenile arthritis quality of life questionnaire (JAQQ). These questionnaires were previously translated and validated in Moroccan children. A total of 80 participants were enrolled with mean age of 11 [6–17 years], and female predominance (59%). Many patients (42.5%) had oligoarticular subtype; 31.3% polyarticular subtypes and 26.2% systemic form. The mean global score of JAQQ was 2.6 ± 1.3 (1–6). Patients with persistant oligoarticular had better gross motor function (P < 0.0001), better fine motor function (P < 0.0001), less psychosocial impact (P = 0.001), and less symptoms (P = 0.001) in comparison with polyarticular and systemic subtypes. The HRQOL assessed by the JAQQ was worse in adolescent patients in comparison with children except for symptoms (P = 0.15). The gender (P = 0.95), age at onset of JIA (P = 0.81), and evolution duration (P = 0.34) were not correlated with global score of JAQQ. The diagnosis delay was significantly associated with decrease of HRQOL (P = 0.001). The decrease of HRQOL was correlated with disease activity [pain (VAS), painful and swollen joints, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (for P < 0.0001)], with disability index (CHAQ) (P = 0.001) and presence of hip involvement (P = 0.01). This study suggests that JIA can have a significant adverse effect on the HRQOL of moroccan patients, particularly adolescents with polyarticular and systemic subtypes. Disease duration, disability score (CHAQ) and pain were the strongest determinants of poorer HRQOL.