A number of technologies enabled by Internet of Thing (IoT) have been used for the prevention of various chronic diseases, continuous and real-time tracking system is a particularly important one. Wearable medical devices with sensor, health cloud and mobile applications have continuously generating a huge amount of data which is often called as streaming big data. Due to the higher speed of the data generation, it is difficult to collect, process and analyze such massive data in real-time in order to perform real-time actions in case of emergencies and extracting hidden value. using traditional methods which are limited and time-consuming. Therefore, there is a significant need to real-time big data stream processing to ensure an effective and scalable solution. In order to overcome this issue, this work proposes a new architecture for real-time health status prediction and analytics system using big data technologies. The system focus on applying distributed machine learning model on streaming health data events ingested to Spark streaming through Kafka topics. Firstly, we transform the standard decision tree (DT) (C4.5) algorithm into a parallel, distributed, scalable and fast DT using Spark instead of Hadoop MapReduce which becomes limited for real-time computing. Secondly, this model is applied to streaming data coming from distributed sources of various diseases to predict health status. Based on several input attributes, the system predicts health status, send an alert message to care providers and store the details in a distributed database to perform health data analytics and stream reporting. We measure the performance of Spark DT against traditional machine learning tools including Weka. Finally, performance evaluation parameters such as throughput and execution time are calculated to show the effectiveness of the proposed architecture. The experimental results show that the proposed system is able to effectively process and predict real-time and massive amount of medical data enabled by IoT from distributed and various diseases.