The current work attempts to explore the influence of three extraction solvents on phytochemical composition, content of polyphenols, antioxidant potential, and antibacterial capacity of hydroethanolic, acetonic, and aqueous extracts from Moroccan Mentha longifolia leaves. To achieve this goal, the chemical composition was identified using an HPLC–DAD examination. The contents of polyphenols were assessed, while the total antioxidant capacity (TAC), the DPPH test, and the reducing power test (RP) were utilized to determine antioxidant capacity. To assess the antibacterial activity, the microdilution technique was carried out to calculate the minimum inhibitory (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentrations (MBC) of extracts against four nosocomial bacteria (Bacillus cereus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus). Additionally, the antibacterial and antioxidant activities of all tested extracts were examined in silico against the proteins NADPH oxidase and Bacillus cereus phospholipase C. Study reveals that M. longifolia extracts contain high phenolic and flavonoids. Additionally, the hydroethanolic extract contained the highest amounts of phenolic and flavonoid content, with values of 23.52 ± 0.14mg Gallic acid equivalent/g dry weight and 17.62 ± 0.36mg Quercetin Equivalent/g dry weight, respectively compared to the other two extracts. The same extract showed the best antioxidant capacity (IC50 = 39µg/mL ± 0.00), and the higher RP (EC50 of 0.261 ± 0.00mg/mL), compared to the acetonic and aqueous extract regarding these tests. Furthermore, the hydroethanolic and acetonic extracts expressed the highest TAC (74.40 ± 1.34, and 52.40 ± 0.20mg EAA/g DW respectively), compared with the aqueous extract. Regarding antibacterial activity, the MIC value ranges between 1.17 and 12.50mg/mL. The in-silico results showed that the antibacterial activity of all extracts is principally attributed to kaempferol and ferulic acid, while antioxidant capacity is attributed to ferulic acid.