Abstract Salmonella genomic island 1 (SGI1) contains an antibiotic resistance gene cluster and has been previously identified in multidrug-resistant Salmonella enterica serovars Typhimurium DT104, Agona, and Paratyphi B. We identified a variant SGI1 antibiotic-resistance gene cluster in a multidrug-resistant strain of S. enterica serovar Albany isolated from food fish from Thailand and imported to France. In this strain, the streptomycin resistance aadA2 gene cassette in one of the SGI1 integrons was replaced by a dfrA1 gene cassette, conferring resistance to trimethoprim and an open reading frame of unknown function. Thus, this serovar Albany strain represents the fourth S. enterica serovar in which SGI1 has been identified and the first SGI1 example where gene cassette replacement took place in one of its integron structures. The antibiotic resistance gene cluster of serovar Albany strain 7205.00 constitutes a new SGI1 variant; we propose a name of SGI1-F. Multidrug-resistant Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium definitive phage type 104 (DT104) emerged during the 1980s as a global health problem because of the strain’s involvement in diseases in animals and humans (1). Multidrug-resistant strains of this phage type were first identified from exotic birds in the United Kingdom in the early 1980s and in cattle and humans in the late 1980s; they have since become common in other animal species such as poultry, swine, and sheep. The DT104 epidemic has now spread worldwide, including several outbreaks since 1996 in the United States and Canada (2–5). Figure 1Figure 1. Genetic organization of the antibiotic resistance gene cluster of Salmonella genomic island 1 (SGI1) of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium DT104 and serovar Albany strain 7205.00. DR-L and DR-R are the left...Multidrug-resistant S. enterica serovar Typhimurium DT104 is commonly resistant to ampicillin (Ap), chloramphenicol/florfenicol (Cm/Ff), streptomycin/spectinomycin (Sm/Sp), sulfonamides (Su), and tetracyclines (Tc). The antibiotic resistance genes are clustered in part of a 43-kb genomic island called Salmonella genomic island 1 (SGI1), located between the chromosomal thdf and int2 genes (6,7). The int2 gene is part of a retron that has been detected only in serovar Typhimurium (7). Downstream of the retron sequence is the yidY gene, which is also found in the chromosome of other S. enterica serovars (7). The antibiotic resistance gene cluster represents approximately one third of SGI1 and is located at the 3´ end of the structure (6,7). All resistance genes are clustered and are bracketed by two integron structures (Figure 1) (6–10). The first integron carries the aadA2 gene, which confers resistance to Sm and Sp, and a truncated sul1 (sul1delta) gene. The second integron contains the β-lactamase gene pse-1 conferring resistance to Ap and a complete sul1 gene conferring resistance to Su. Flanked by these two integron structures are the floR gene (8), also called floSt (11) or cmlA-like (9), which confers cross-resistance to Cm and Ff, and the tetracycline-resistance genes tetR and tet(G). Recently, SGI1 has also been identified in other phage types (i.e., serovar Typhimurium and S. enterica serovars Agona and Paratyphi B), indicating the horizontal transfer potential of SGI1 (6,10,12–15). In serovars Agona and Paratyphi B, SGI1 has the same chromosomal location as in serovar Typhimurium DT104, except that they lack the retron sequence found downstream of SGI1; thus it is located between the thdf gene and the yidY gene of their chromosomes (6,14). Moreover, variant SGI1 antibiotic resistance gene clusters have recently been reported for serovars Typhimurium DT104 and Agona variant SGI1 (12,15). These clusters were probably generated after chromosomal recombinational events, resulting in either deletion or inactivation of some antibiotic resistance genes or in insertion of a new antibiotic resistance gene cassette. In particular, the dfrA10 gene coding for trimethoprim (Tm) resistance was found downstream of the pse-1 integron in two of the SGI1 variant antibiotic resistance gene clusters reported (15). They were accordingly classified in SGI1-A to -E; the resulting antibiotic resistance phenotypes were ApCmFfSmSpSuTcTm, ApSu, SmSpSu, SmSpSuTm, and ApSmSpSuTc, respectively (15). We examined a strain of S. enterica serovar Albany, isolated from food fish from Thailand and imported in France, that displayed the multidrug-resistance profile ApCmFfSuTcTm. This multidrug resistance profile suggested the possible occurrence of SGI1 with a new variant antibiotic resistance cluster in this serovar.