A study of forest ecosystems from across western Europe and the United States has settled a long-running controversy — and raised many new questions. At issue is the influence of nitrogen deposition on the global carbon cycle, particularly the part played by human activity. The new study demonstrates that via the direct effects of forest management and indirectly via the use of nitrogen fertilizers and nitrogen oxide production by cars and industry, human activities have had a profound and largely positive effect on the carbon balance or net ecosystem production. (That's the balance between ecosystem carbon fixation through photosynthesis and its subsequent release through plant and soil respiration.) The implications of these findings for practical questions such as the merits of fertilizing forests with nitrogen, are considered in the accompanying News and Views by Peter Högberg. The profound, overwhelming effects of human activities on the carbon balance of temperate and boreal forests are demonstrated. Apart from the direct effects of forest management, they show that carbon sequestration by this important component of the biosphere is driven by the imbalance in the global nitrogen cycle determined by human activities. Temperate and boreal forests in the Northern Hemisphere cover an area of about 2 × 107 square kilometres and act as a substantial carbon sink (0.6–0.7 petagrams of carbon per year)1. Although forest expansion following agricultural abandonment is certainly responsible for an important fraction of this carbon sink activity, the additional effects on the carbon balance of established forests of increased atmospheric carbon dioxide, increasing temperatures, changes in management practices and nitrogen deposition are difficult to disentangle, despite an extensive network of measurement stations2,3. The relevance of this measurement effort has also been questioned4, because spot measurements fail to take into account the role of disturbances, either natural (fire, pests, windstorms) or anthropogenic (forest harvesting). Here we show that the temporal dynamics following stand-replacing disturbances do indeed account for a very large fraction of the overall variability in forest carbon sequestration. After the confounding effects of disturbance have been factored out, however, forest net carbon sequestration is found to be overwhelmingly driven by nitrogen deposition, largely the result of anthropogenic activities5. The effect is always positive over the range of nitrogen deposition covered by currently available data sets, casting doubts on the risk of widespread ecosystem nitrogen saturation6 under natural conditions. The results demonstrate that mankind is ultimately controlling the carbon balance of temperate and boreal forests, either directly (through forest management) or indirectly (through nitrogen deposition).