The Burgess Shale of British Columbia famously contains a remarkable variety of fossils of soft-bodied creatures from the Middle Cambrian of around 510 million years ago, offering a window on early animal life in the sea. Similar faunas are now known from localities as far apart as China and Greenland, but it was beginning to seem that such faunas had died out by the end of the Middle Cambrian. But no. A 'Burgess Shale-type' fauna has been found in the Lower and Upper Fezouata formations of Morocco, dating from about 480–472 million years ago in the Early Ordovician. Creatures of this type clearly persisted beyond the Cambrian — a persistence with as much to do with the chances of preserving soft-bodied fossils as with extinction and survival. The Fezouata biota provides a link between Burgess Shale communities and the early stages of the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event, one of the most dramatic episodes in the history of marine life previously represented almost exclusively by 'shelly' fossils. The Burgess Shales of British Columbia are famous for having yielded fossils of soft-bodied creatures from the Middle Cambrian period. Although similar faunas are now known from localities as far apart as China and Greenland, they seem to have died out before the end of the Cambrian. Or did they? Here, the discovery of a Burgess Shale-type fauna from the Ordovician period in Morocco is reported, showing that creatures of this type persisted beyond the end of the Cambrian. The renowned soft-bodied faunas of the Cambrian period, which include the Burgess Shale, disappear from the fossil record in the late Middle Cambrian, after which the Palaeozoic fauna1 dominates. The disappearance of faunas of Burgess Shale type curtails the stratigraphic record of a number of iconic Cambrian taxa. One possible explanation for this loss is a major extinction2,3, but more probably it reflects the absence of preservation of similar soft-bodied faunas in later periods4. Here we report the discovery of numerous diverse soft-bodied assemblages in the Lower and Upper Fezouata Formations (Lower Ordovician) of Morocco, which include a range of remarkable stem-group morphologies normally considered characteristic of the Cambrian. It is clear that biotas of Burgess Shale type persisted after the Cambrian and are preserved where suitable facies occur. The Fezouata biota provides a link between the Burgess Shale communities and the early stages of the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event.