In this research, the adsorption of methylene blue (MB), malachite green (MG), and rhodamine B (RB) onto cassava peel carbon (CPC) in single, binary, and ternary mixtures was discussed. The CPC biochar was firstly characterized by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis before and after adsorption; moreover, pore-size distribution and surface area analysis were also investigated. The whole experiments were done in batch mode under natural solution pH. All the parameters influencing the adsorption of the three dyes were carried out, namely, the initial dye concentration (10–30 mg/L), the effect of pH (2–8), contact time (5–180 min), and the effect of temperature (15–35 °C). The results revealed that the sorption capacity of CPC for MB, MG, and RB increase at high pH, higher temperature, and higher dye concentrations. Then, the adsorption isotherms were performed by applying Langmuir and Freundlich models for single system (MB, MG, RB); concerning the binary system (MB + MG, MB + RB, RB + MG), the extended Langmuir and extended Freundlich models were examined using nonlinear regression analysis. The obtained results indicate that the adsorption predominately followed the Langmuir and the extended Langmuir models with correlation coefficients which are very close to 1 (0.99 for MB, 0.96 for MG, and 0.98 for RB). The maximum adsorption capacities for three dyes in single system are 286.41 mg g−1 for MB, 282.64 mg g−1 for MG, and 265.36 mg g−1 for RB; in binary dye system, the maximum adsorption capacities are 129.06 mg g−1 for MB(MB + MG), 51.07 mg g−1 for MB(MB + RB), 92.59 mg g−1 for MG(MG + MB), 111.67 mg g−1 for MG(MG + RB), 14.82 mg g−1 for RB(RB + MB), and 14.05 mg g−1 for RB(RB + MG). Besides, three kinetic models were used in single dye system including the pseudo-first-order model, the pseudo-second-order model, and the intraparticle model. The pseudo-second-order model was adequate to describe the adsorption kinetic. Finally, the thermodynamic study showed that the adsorption of the three dyes in single, binary, and ternary mixture was controlled by physisorption, spontaneous, and endothermic in nature. Graphical abstract