© 2011 Verlag der Zeitschrift für Naturforschung, Tübingen · http://znaturforsch.comIntroductionToday there is a great and urgent need to dis-cover new antiparasitic compounds with differ-ent chemical structures and mechanisms of ac-tion because of the increase in the incidence of some parasitic diseases and the appearance of re-emerging parasitosis. In addition, drugs for the treatment of some parasitic diseases are scarce and sometimes non existent. Leishmaniasis and Chagas ́ disease are two major parasitic diseases that cause signifi cant morbidity and mortality, and their treatment is still problematic.Natural products have become a key source of new drugs in the last years (Fournet and Muñoz, 2002; Newman and Cragg, 2007). The Euphor-bia genus includes a wide and diverse group of plants which are characterized by the presence of an irritant latex rich in euphol and euphor-bol triterpenes (Singla and Pathak, 1990). This genus has been the subject of abundant phyto-chemical and pharmacological research because of its potential medical applications. Extracts of numerous Euphorbia species have been found to demonstrate a number of interesting biologi-cal activities against pathologies, such as swell-ing and warts, or anticancer properties (Fatope et al., 1996). Furthermore, Euphorbia offi cinarumis used in traditional medicine to treat skin and ophthalmologic diseases (Daoubi et al., 2007). A number of biologically active natural compounds have been isolated from this genus: euphol and euphorbol triterpenes have been reported as anti-infl ammatory and antiviral compounds which af-fect Xenopus cell division and human breast can-cer cell viability (Yasukawa et al., 2000; Akihisa et al., 2002; Wang et al., 2003). Other phorbol and ingenol derivatives have a potent antiproliferative activity in tumour cells (Irie et al., 2002; Kedei et al., 2004). Also, some derivatives from Euphorbia Antileishmanial and Antitrypanosomal Activity of Triterpene Derivatives from Latex of Two Euphorbia SpeciesNoureddine Mazoira, Ahmed Benharrefa, María Bailénb, Matías Reinac, Azucena González-Colomab, and Rafael A. Martínez-Díazd,*a Laboratoire de Chimie Biomoléculaire, Substances Naturelles et Réactivité (URAC 16), Faculté des Sciences Semlalia/Université Cadi Ayyad, BP. 2390 Marrakech, Moroccob Instituto de Ciencias Agrarias – CCMA, CSIC, Serrano 115-dpdo, 28006 Madrid, Spainc Instituto de Productos Naturales y Agrobiología, CSIC, Avda. Astrofísico F. Sánchez 3, 38206 La Laguna, Tenerife, Spaind Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, Salud Pública y Microbiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Avda. Arzobispo Morcillo s/n, 28029 Madrid, Spain. Fax: +34 914975353. E-mail: rafael.martinez@uam.es* Author for correspondence and reprint requestsZ. Naturforsch. 66 c, 360–366 (2011); received October 29, 2010/February 17, 2011The in vitro activity on Leishmania infantum promastigotes and Trypanosoma cruzi epi-mastigotes of 25 semisynthetic terpenoid derivatives has been evaluated. These compounds were obtained through chemical modifi cations of the major components of Euphorbia res-inifera (α-euphol and α-euphorbol) and Euphorbia offi cinarum (obtusifoliol and 31-norla-nosterol). Leishmaniasis and Chagas ́ disease are major worldwide health problems. The drugs of choice for their treatment are still problematic in both cases, and therefore there is an urgent need to discover new drugs with high activity and low side effects. Natural products have become a key source of new drugs in the last years. The genus Euphorbiahas been the subject of abundant phytochemical and pharmacological research because of its potential medical applications, but the antiparasitic effects of derivatives from plants of this genus are still unknown. Our results showed that 76% and 64% of the test compounds had antiparasitic effects on L. infantum and T. cruzi, respectively. The different activities on both parasites, especially their moderate effects on mammalian cells, indicate an interesting selective toxicity.Key words: Triterpenes, Antileishmanial, Antitrypanosomal