Aim/PurposeThis study focuses on the learners’ success toward learning management systems in higher education in Morocco and also proposes a theoretical model to better understand the determinants of learners’ satisfaction, self-regulation and continuance intention to use these systems. For this purpose, variables which may have a positive or negative influence in our model are examined. BackgroundThe latest version of the technology acceptance model, expectation–confirmation model, DeLone and McLean Information systems success model and self-regulated learning theory, have been used. This study proposes a causal model named e-learner success assessment model or e-LSAM. MethodologyIn this study, a structural equation model (SEM) approach was used for the empirical validation and testing of correlation hypotheses between e-LSAM constructions. ContributionThis research extends previous literature on the factors that can contribute to learners’ use, engagement, satisfaction and success in an e-learning system, we also propose a causal model named e-learner success assessment model (e-LSAM). FindingsThe results indicate that, learner’s success in an e-learning system could be explained by self-regulation and learners’ intention to continue using LMS, which is explained by learners’ satisfaction. The results also show that the system quality, course and information quality, course flexibility, diversity in assessments and social interactions can improve learners’ satisfaction with LMS platforms Impact on SocietyThis study will enable the university and higher school in Morocco to better understand the critical factors to be undertaken to improve student performance and educational levels. Future ResearchThis document is a general overview of factors that help to understand learner’s success in an eLearning system; it is not without limitations. Our research did not take into account the effects of demographic attributes such as gender, age, level of education and others. More specifically, Morocco, like any other country, has its own traditions and culture, future research should explore how these aspects influence the success of learners in an e-learning system.