AbstractCoronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) is a global health threat. The kinetics of antibodies against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) need to be assessed, as the long-term duration of these immunoglobulins remains largely controversial. The aim of this study was to assess the longitudinal dynamics of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies against the nucleocapsid (N) protein and the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein up to one year in a cohort of 190 COVID-19 patients. Between March and September 2021, we enrolled patients from two regional hospitals in Casablanca, Morocco. Blood samples were collected and analyzed for antibody levels. We used the commercial Euroimmun ELISA for the determination of anti-N IgM, the Abbott Architect™ SARS-CoV-2 IgG test for the detection of anti-RBD IgG, and an in-house kit for the assay of anti-N IgG and anti-N IgA. IgM and IgA antibodies were assessed 2–5, 9–12, 17–20 and 32–37 days after symptom onset. IgG antibodies were also assessed 60, 90, 120 and 360 days after symptom onset. One-third of patients developed IgM (32%), while two-thirds developed IgA (61%). One month of symptom onset, most patients developed IgG, with 97% and 93% positivity for anti-RBD IgG and anti-N IgG, respectively. The anti-RBD IgG positivity rate remained high up to one year of follow-up. However, the anti-N IgG positivity rate decreased over time, with only 41% of patients testing positive after one year’s follow-up. IgG levels were significantly higher in older people (over 50 years) than in other study participants. We also found that patients who had received two doses of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine prior to infection had a lower IgM response than unvaccinated patients. This difference was statistically significant two weeks after the onset of symptoms. We present the first study in Africa to measure the kinetics of antibody response (IgA, IgM and IgG) to SARS-CoV-2 over one year. Most participants remained seropositive for anti-RBD IgG after one year but showed a significant decline in antibody titers.