Abstract Shigella sonnei UCN59, isolated during an outbreak of S. sonnei in January 2007, was resistant to azithromycin (MIC 64 mg/L). The isolate contained a plasmid-borne mph(A) gene encoding a macrolide 2′-phosphotransferase that inactivates macrolides. Emergence of the mph(A) gene in S. sonnei may limit usefulness of azithromycin for treatment of shigellosis. Shigellosis remains a common gastrointestinal disease in developing and industrialized countries. It occurs mostly in children <5 years of age; Shigella sonnei is the most frequently isolated species (1). Ampicillin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole alleviate the dysenteric syndrome of shigellosis and reduce the infectious period. However, current resistance patterns limit the use of these drugs (2). Although fluoroquinolones are an effective alternative for adults, they are not approved for shigellosis treatment in children <18 years of age because of their potential toxicity (2,3). Azithromycin, a macrolide, represents an attractive treatment option for several reasons. It has in vitro activity against most Shigella spp. isolates (4), can be given once a day, and attains high intracellular concentrations (5). Despite MICs from 2 to 8 mg/L for Shigella spp., sufficient concentrations of azithromycin in the colon may inhibit Shigella spp. growth (6). Azithromycin is recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics for treatment of shigellosis in children, by the World Health Organization as a second-line treatment in adults, and, since June 2004, by the Agence Française de Sécurité Sanitaire des Produits de Santé (2,7; www.agmed.sante.gouv.fr/htm/10/filcoprs/mp040601.pdfExternal Link). In 1996, 2002, 2003, and 2007, outbreaks of shigellosis caused by S. sonnei resistant to ampicillin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole occurred in children in northern Paris. The outbreaks occurred in religious schools, similar to cyclic outbreaks in US Jewish schools related to secondary transmission (8,9).We report an outbreak of shigellosis in and around Paris, France, in which azithromycin failure was related to emergence of plasmid-mediated resistance to macrolides.