Drought is one of the main devastating environmental factors limiting crops’ development and productivity. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) can enhance plant growth and drought stress tolerance, through regulation of physiological and biochemical features. The current study was conducted to investigate the role of phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) isolated from barley and alfalfa rhizosphere as consortia to protect barley plants against drought damages. Strains used in this study were able to tolerate up to 30% PEG 6000 and showed several plants growths promoting traits such as phosphate and potassium solubilization, indole-3-acetic acid and siderophores production, and aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase activity. A completely randomized design was used in this experiment with the water stress as the main factor consisting of two regimes: (1) well-watered (WW) plants (75% field capacity (FC)) and (2) water-stressed (WS) plants (35% FC), and PGPR inoculation as a second factor consisting of four treatments: (1) control (without PGPR), (2) (Consortia 1: E1 + E5), (3) (Consortia 2: LM3 + LL1), and (4) (Consortia 3: E1 + E5 + LM3 + LL1). The consortia were formed on the basis of their salinity and drought tolerance and the complementarity between PGP activities. Drought stress significantly decreased plant growth traits, relative water content, and total chlorophyll. Conversely, water deficit increased hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde concentration, osmoprotectants accumulation, and antioxidant enzymes activity. However, the application of bacterial consortia attenuated the negative effect of drought stress. PGPR used were different in their ability to enhance plant investigated parameters, and the most pronounced effect was displayed by consortia 3. This treatment significantly enhanced dry weight (140%) and total chlorophyll (141%) under WS conditions. Furthermore, consortia 3 improved protein, proline, and sugar contents in plant shoots. The same treatment enhanced the superoxide dismutase (90%), catalase (29%), and polyphenol oxidase (37%) activities compared to the stressed control. Application of drought-tolerant PGPR consortia may provide an eco-friendly strategy to mitigate drought stress.