Water plays an important role in power generation, fuel manufacturing, and processing. This has been valid for several decades, but lately, primarily due to climate change, the limitations and insecurity related to water energy connections have become more prominent. The article is a quantitative review study conducted to evaluate the water–energy nexus in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. Information about the review was generated from online databases by using keywords such as water–energy nexus, MENA region, Power Generation, Fuel Manufacturing, Energy-intensive, Energy Management Decisions, and Desalination Systems. Drip irrigation in Morocco played a vital role in the water–energy nexus for resource conservation and their better utilization. From the findings, it was revealed that distorted coupling with a relatively low reliance on freshwater energy systems has a high reliance on conceptual water and energy production systems. For Saudi Arabia, extraction and desalination of groundwater are projected to be up to 9% of total annual electricity use. Policymakers should consider energy implications for water-intensive food imports and possible water demand restructuring. This would lead to more coordinated water and energy management decisions. A comprehensive evaluation in some cases promotes the reuse of water and improvements in the agricultural sector rather than the development of energy-intensive and expensive desalination systems. One of the limitations for water–energy nexus in the MENA region is its unintelligible patterns for policy and decision-makers, and this quantitative review can be a major advancement in this regard. This study also highlights the use of water as an energy production source as well as the energy that is being utilized in water treatment and processing and their interrelationship. Cohesive and strategic tactics can lead technology’s research and development to reporting local issues of water and energy issues. Improving and participating models and data will better assist scholars, decision-makers, and the community. This water–energy nexus study mounts relevant challenges and areas of improvement for future research.