AbstractDisturbances of the serotoninergic neuromodulation in the cerebellar cortex have been involved in several types of ataxia, but the physiological action of serotonin in this structure remains poorly understood. We report that in slices of the rat cerebellar vermis, serotonin triggers the firing of an inhibitory interneuron presynaptic to Golgi cells. The Lugaro cell, a neglected interneuronal type, satisfies the expected criteria for this input, whereas basket cells, stellate cells, or Golgi cells do not. Lugaro cells are selectively excited by serotonin, and their firing behavior (sustained steady frequency in the 5–15 Hz range) resembles the pattern of occurrence of serotonin-evoked IPSCs in Golgi cells. Immunohistochemical stainings and single cell reconstructions show that Lugaro cell axons form a parasagittal plexus but also extend long transverse branches that run parallel to the parallel fibers and are partly myelinated. Electrophysiological data suggest that these transverse axons participate in synaptic contacts of the Lugaro cells with Golgi cells, and we calculated that in the intact cerebellum a given Lugaro cell contacts >100 Golgi cells. Serotonin modulation of Lugaro cells may constitute an intracortical switch involved in information patterning at the level of Golgi cells and granule cells populations, and particularly in synchronizations recorded along the transverse axisin vivo.serotonincerebellar cortexinhibitioninterneuronsGolgi cellLugaro cellmyelinated axonsReciprocal interactions between the motor system and the serotoninergic modulatory system are well documented (Jacobs and Fornal, 1997). The cerebellar cortex, like all other motor structures, receives serotoninergic innervation in the form of a plexus of fine varicose fibers that do not face any differentiated postsynaptic element (Ungerstedt, 1971; Chan-Palay, 1975; Bishop and Ho, 1985; Trouillas and Fuxe, 1993). Serotonin is therefore acting in this structure as a paracrine agent, released through volume transmission. In vivo, local iontophoretic applications of serotonin have been shown to modify the spontaneous activity of the Purkinje cells, suggesting that serotonin is able to alter the input–output function of the cortex (Strahlendorf et al., 1988; Darrow et al., 1990; Kerr and Bishop, 1992). However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms responsible for this effect are still poorly understood.It has been reported that application of serotonin potentiates the inhibition of Purkinje cells by exogenous GABA (Strahlendorf et al., 1989, 1991; Kerr and Bishop, 1992) and inhibits their excitation by exogenous non-NMDA glutamatergic agonists in vivo (Hicks et al., 1989; Kerr and Bishop, 1992; Netzeband et al., 1993) (for review, see Bishop and Kerr, 1992). Serotonin also modulates the potassium conductance activated by depolarization (IA) (Wang et al., 1992) as well as the cationic conductance activated by hyperpolarization (Ih) (Li et al., 1993) recorded from Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices. Finally, serotonin may affect the efficiency of excitatory transmission at mossy fiber terminals (Maura et al., 1991; Lu and Larson-Prior, 1996) and parallel fiber synapses in the molecular layer (Raiteri et al., 1986;Maura and Raiteri, 1996).In this work we have combined electrophysiological recordings in thin slices of the rat cerebellar cortex with cell reconstruction and immunohistochemical methods to identify a new site of action of serotonin. Recordings from Golgi cells revealed that serotonin (1 μm) evokes numerous IPSCs, whose pattern of occurrence reveals the regular spiking of a small number of inhibitory interneurons presynaptic to Golgi cells. We show that the Lugaro cells, whose connectivity and function have remained poorly known since their initial description (Lugaro, 1894), have the properties expected from such interneurons. They are selectively excited by serotonin, in contrast to stellate cells, basket cells, and Golgi cells. Immunohistochemical and electrophysiological data suggest that Lugaro cells contact Golgi cells through longitudinal axons, which have the orientation and extension of parallel fibers. We propose that Lugaro cells, by providing synchronous inhibition to many Golgi cells, will affect the pattern of inhibitory input from Golgi cells to large populations of granule cells. Lugaro cells may therefore constitute a cellular substrate for serotonin-controlled information processing in the cerebellar cortex, accounting for the role of serotonin in several types of cerebellar ataxia (Trouillas and Fuxe, 1993).