Background Worldwide, physical inactivity (PIA) and sedentary behavior (SB) are recognized as significant challenges hindering the achievement of the United Nations (UN) sustainable development goals (SDGs). PIA and SB are responsible for 1.6 million deaths attributed to non-communicable diseases (NCDs). The World Health Organization (WHO) has urged governments to implement interventions informed by behavioral theories aimed at reducing PIA and SB. However, limited attention has been given to the range of theories, techniques, and contextual conditions underlying the design of behavioral theories. To this end, we set out to map these interventions, their levels of action, their mode of delivery, and how extensively they apply behavioral theories, constructs, and techniques. Methods Following the scoping review methodology of Arksey and O’Malley (2005), we included peer-reviewed articles on behavioral theories interventions centered on PIA and SB, published between 2010 and 2023 in Arabic, French, and English in four databases (Scopus, Web of Science [WoS], PubMed, and Google Scholar). We adopted a framework thematic analysis based on the upper-level ontology of behavior theories interventions, Behavioral theories taxonomies, and the first version (V1) taxonomy of behavior change techniques(BCTs). Results We included 29 studies out of 1,173 that were initially screened/searched. The majority of interventions were individually focused (n = 15). Few studies have addressed interpersonal levels (n = 6) or organizational levels (n = 6). Only two interventions can be described as systemic (i.e., addressing the individual, interpersonal, organizational, and institutional factors)(n = 2). Most behavior change interventions use four theories: The Social cognitive theory (SCT), the socioecological model (SEM), SDT, and the transtheoretical model (TTM). Most behavior change interventions (BCIS) involve goal setting, social support, and action planning with various degrees of theoretical use (intensive [n = 15], moderate [n = 11], or low [n = 3]). Discussion and conclusion Our review suggests the need to develop systemic and complementary interventions that entail the micro-, meso- and macro-level barriers to behavioral changes. Theory informed BCI need to integrate synergistic BCTs into models that use micro-, meso- and macro-level theories to determine behavioral change. Future interventions need to appropriately use a mix of behavioral theories and BCTs to address the systemic nature of behavioral change as well as the heterogeneity of contexts and targeted populations.