SummaryIn this paper, we performed a series of experiments on real-world networks of various nature covering all the range of community structure strength. The SLPA algorithm is used to uncover the overlapping communities of the network. Results show that the performance of the Overlapping Modular centrality versions of the four tested centralities exhibits the same behavior as for synthetic networks. Indeed, the Local component shows its best performance in networks with well-defined community structure, while the Global component shows its best performance in networks with medium and weak community structure strength. Moreover, combination-based measures outperform all the other measures in all the different types of networks. These results corroborate the conclusions we made with the synthetic networks. The second part of the experiments aims to compare the Overlapping Modular centrality together with their classical counterparts with some alternative measures (Membership, RWOS and OverlapNeighborhood). Experimental results show the OverlapNeighborhood performs, in most cases, as well as the standard Degree centrality and surpasses in some cases the standard Betweenness centrality. The other alternative measures (RWOS and the Membership) display a lower performance. This is due to their use of limited information about the network topology as compared to the other measures. Another set of experiments is performed to show the influence of the community detection algorithm choice on the performance of the Overlapping Modular centrality. We use the LINKC algorithm to test the robustness of the results if a different overlapping community detection algorithm is chosen. We used also the Louvain algorithm which is designed to uncover non-overlapping communities in order to compare the Overlapping Modular centrality with the Modular centrality. In networks with well-defined community structure, results show that the performance of the Overlapping Modular centrality does not vary significantly when the LINKC algorithm is used. This is due to the fact that both algorithms reveal about the same set of communities. However, the performance of the Overlapping Modular centrality variations decreases for LINKC algorithm in networks with loose community structure. In this case, the community detection algorithms uncover different sets of communities. Furthermore, whatever the community structure strength, the Overlapping Modular centrality (using SLPA or LINKC) outperforms the Modular centrality (using Louvain). Therefore, the overlapping nodes play a major role in terms of disseminating epidemics between the communities.