Aphanomyces root rot, caused by Aphanomyces euteiches Drechs, is the most-important disease of pea (Pisum sativum L.) worldwide. No efficient chemicals are available to control the pathogen. To facilitate breeding for Aphanomyces root rot resistance and to better understand the inheritance of partial resistance, our goal was to identify QTLs associated with field partial resistance. A population of 127 RILs from the cross Puget (susceptible) × 90-2079 (partially resistant) was used. The lines were assessed for resistance to A. euteiches under field conditions at two locations in the United States (Pullman, Wash. and LeSueur, Minn.) in 1996 and 1998 for three criteria based on symptom intensity and disease effects on the whole plant. The RILs were genotyped using automated AFLPs, RAPDs, SSRs, ISSRs, STSs, isozymes and morphological markers. The resulting genetic map consisted of 324 linked markers distributed over 13 linkage groups covering 1,094 cM (Kosambi). Twenty seven markers were anchored to other published pea genetic maps. A total of seven genomic regions were associated with Aphanomyces root rot resistance. The first one, located on LG IVb and named Aph1, was considered as "major" since it was highly consistent over the years, locations and resistance criteria studied, and it explained up to 47% of the variation in the 1998 Minnesota trial. Two other year-specific QTLs, namely Aph2 and Aph3, were revealed from different scoring criteria on LG V and Ia, respectively. Aph2 and Aph3 mapped near the r (wrinkled/round seeds) and af (normal/afila leaves) genes, and accounted for up to 32% and 11% of the variation, respectively. Four other "minor" QTLs, identified on LG Ib, VII and B, were specific to one environment and one resistance criterion. The resistance alleles of Aph3 and the two "minor" QTLs on LG Ib were derived from the susceptible parent. Flanking markers for the major Aphanomyces resistance QTL, Aph1, have been identified for use in marker-assisted selection to improve breeding efficiency.