Abstract Objective. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease characterized by alterations of the B cell subset, global regulatory T cell (Treg) depletion, and an increase in Th17 cells. Interleukin 21 (IL-21) plays a critical role in T cell and B cell homeostasis. Our objective was to determine the implication of IL-21 and IL-21-producing CD4+ T cells in the pathogenesis of SLE. Methods. Twenty-five patients with SLE and 25 healthy donor controls were included. Analysis of CD4+ T cells producing IL-21, Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg, follicular helper T (TFH) cells, and B cells was performed in peripheral blood, and levels of cytokines were measured in culture supernatants. Results. Circulating CD4+ T cells producing IL-21 were markedly expanded in patients with SLE compared to controls and were correlated with increased Th17, decreased Treg, and increased memory B cells. CD4+ T cells producing IL-21 were composed of CXCR5+ and CXCR5–CD4+ T cell subsets. Both IL-21-producing CXCR5+CD4+ T cells and CXCR5–CD4+ T cells were increased in patients with SLE, the CXCR5–CD4+ subset correlating with Th17 cells and Treg, while the CXCR5+CD4+ subset was correlated with alterations of the B cell subset. The CXCR5+CD4+ subset comprised mainly circulating Bcl6+CXCR5+CD4+ TFH cells that were markedly expanded in patients with SLE and were correlated with increased circulating Bcl6+CXCR5+ germinal center B cells. Conclusion. These findings suggest that IL-21, produced by distinct cellular CD4+ T cells, correlates with alterations of T cell and B cell subsets in SLE, and that targeting IL-21 could provide beneficial effects on both T cell and B cell alterations.Key Indexing Terms:SYSTEMIC LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUSINTERLEUKIN 21REGULATORY T CELLSGERMINAL CENTER B CELLSFOLLICULAR HELPER T CELLSTH17Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a disorder characterized by involvement of skin, joints, serositis, central nervous system, and kidney. Therapeutic management is based on the type and severity of organ involvement and includes nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, hydroxychloroquine, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressive agents1. However, longterm corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressive agents remain associated with morbidity and mortality2. SLE is a T and B cell-dependent autoimmune disease characterized by the appearance of a variety of autoantibodies, some of which are pathogenic1,3. T cells are needed to initiate and sustain the secretion of antibodies, in particular to histones and double-stranded DNA4. SLE is also associated with major alterations of blood B cell subsets5,6, global depletion of T regulatory cells (Treg)7, an increase in Th lymphocytes producing interleukin 17 (Th17 cells)8,9, and increased expression of interferon (IFN)-inducible genes10. Although studies have contributed to understanding of the pathophysiology of SLE, data are lacking on cytokines and/or cellular subpopulations that could drive these T cell and B cell subset alterations and could represent potential targets for novel therapy.IL-21, the most recently identified member of the type 1 cytokine family11, was suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of SLE. IL-21 is produced mainly by activated CD4+ T cells but targets a much broader range of cells12. IL-21 was shown to potently induce Th17 differentiation and suppress FoxP3 expression13,14,15, supporting the damaging effect of IL-21 on Th17 cell and Treg balance. Besides its role on T cells, IL-21 was shown to stimulate the differentiation of human B cells, and to take part in promoting B cell activation and expansion, class-switch recombination, plasma cell differentiation, and immunoglobulin (Ig) production during CD4+ T cell-dependent B cell responses16,17. Thus, IL-21 could represent a key cytokine modulating T cell and B cell responses in SLE.We observed that IL-21 produced by distinct cellular CD4+ T cells correlates with alterations of T cell and B cell subsets in SLE. Circulating CD4+ T cells producing IL-21 are markedly expanded in patients with SLE compared to controls, and correlate with Th17, Treg, and IgG class-switched memory B cells. Both follicular helper CD4+ T (TFH) cells and non-TFH CD4+ T cells producing IL-21 are increased in patients with SLE. The expansion of CD4+ TFH cells correlates with the expansion of circulating Bcl6+ germinal center B cells, while the expansion of non-TFH CD4+ T cells correlates with increase of Th17. These findings suggest that targeting IL-21 could provide beneficial effects on perturbations of both T cell and B cell homeostasis.