Abstract Context: The flora of the Bouhachem Regional Natural Park has been studied by many botanists and ecologists, but the analysis of the medicinal and economic values of these plants is still weak and poorly documented. Within the framework of this study, further investigations will be carried out into the value of indigenous medicinal plants and the documentation of their ethnopharmacological knowledge. In addition, due to their important socio-economic role as a second source of income after agriculture, the evaluation of the commercial activity of aromatic and medicinal plants (AMP) will also be taken into account. Aims: To evaluate the ethnobotanical and commercialized medicinal plants in north region of Morocco in which traditional medicine is widespread. Methods: The uses of medicinal plants in traditional phytotherapy were researched through 700 question cards, in Bni-Leit and Al-Oued districts, which are a part of the Naturel Regional Park of Bouhachem. A series of ethnobotanical, economic and sociocultural surveys/interviews were conducted among the local population in the study area, between March 2014 and July 2016. Results: This Ethnobotanical study identified 101 medicinal plant species belonging to 46 families, of which the most abundant are Lamiaceae (FUV: 1.87). This study also revealed that the leaves are the most used parts of the plant (26%) and that the most remedies are prepared as decoction (27%). Digestive disorders rank first among the diseases treated by these plants with a rate of 21%. Conclusions: The present study shows that the traditional use of medicinal plants still persists and constitutes a very rich heritage in the northern of Morocco. Therefore, this important indigenous knowledge of medicinal plants would be exploited in pharmaceutical research. It reveals that urgent action is needed to promote a sustainable and best practices to reduce the increasing scale of exploitation of AMPs for commercial use and to draw the attention of Park managers to the preservation of these plants from genetic erosion by a rational management. Keywords: Bouhachem Park; ethnobotanical; medicinal plants; Moroccan Rif; phytotherapy; Tetouan.