Abstract Core share and HTML view are not available for this content. However, as you have access to this content, a full PDF is available via the ‘Save PDF’ action button. The effect of fermentation on colonic absorption of Ca and Mg was investigated in 8-week-old rats adapted to diets containing either digestible wheat starch (DS diets) or including resistant starch, i.e. 350 g raw potato starch/kg (RS diets). The dietary Ca level of the DS and RS diets was 2·5 or 7·5 g/kg. RS diets resulted in enlargements of the caecum together with hypertrophy of the caecal wall. Acidification of the caecal contents by mictobial fermentation of RS was influenced by the dietary Ca level. Very acidic pH conditions and relatively low concentrations of short-chain fatty acids, in the presence of lactic acid fermentation, were observed with the 2·5 g Ca/kg level. Rats fed on RS diets had a bhigher pencentage of soluble Ca (and inorganic phosphate) in the caecum, particularly of rats adapted to the high Ca level.As a result of the hypertrophy of the caecal wall and of an elevated concentration of soluble Cas, the caecal absorption of Ca was 5-6 fold higher in the RS groups than in the DS groups.The difference between dietary intakle and faecal excretion (DI-FE) of Ca was higher in rats fed on RS diets than in those fed on DS diets, when the dietary Ca level was 2·5 g/kg. With the higher Ca intake the elevated rate of Ca absorption from the caecum in RS-fed rats was not paralleled by an enhanced DI-EE difference: this suggests a shift of the Ca absorption towards the large intestine. Feeding Rs diets also enhanced Mg caecal absorption, resulting in the substatntially higher DI-FE difference for Mg, especially with the 2·5 g Ca/kg diets, because a high Ca intake tends to inhibit Mg absorption. The present findings support the view that the large intestine may represent a major site of Ca (and Mg) absorption when acidic fermentations take place. This process could improve the digestive Ca balance when the dietary Ca supply is low; when the Ca supply is affluent, it rather shits Ca absorption towards a more distal site fo the digestive tract.