Abstract Members of the metzincin family of metalloproteinases have long been considered merely degradative enzymes for extracellular matrix molecules. Recently, however, there has been growing appreciation for these proteinases and their endogenous inhibitors, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs), as fine modulators of nervous system physiology and pathology. Present all along the phylogenetic tree, in all neural cell types, from the nucleus to the synapse and in the extracellular space, metalloproteinases exhibit a complex spatiotemporal profile of expression in the nervous parenchyma and at the neurovascular interface. The irreversibility of their proteolytic activity on numerous biofactors (e.g., growth factors, cytokines, receptors, DNA repair enzymes, matrix proteins) is ideally suited to sustain structural changes that are involved in physiological or postlesion remodeling of neural networks, learning consolidation or impairment, neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory processes, or progression of malignant gliomas. The present review provides a state of the art overview of the involvement of the metzincin/TIMP system in these processes and the prospects of new therapeutic strategies based on the control of metalloproteinase activity.The importance of proteolysis in tissue structure/function is reflected not only in the evolutionary conservation of protease genes in all kingdoms (e.g., from archaea and eubacteria to plants and animals) but also the genomic complexity of this protein class. The “degradome,” the repertoire of proteases produced by cells, consists of at least 569 human, 629 rat, and 644 mouse proteases or protease-like proteins and homologs, whereas 156 human protease inhibitor genes have been identified (Puente et al., 2003). The proteases are classified into five major catalytic classes, including metalloproteinases and serine, cysteine, threonine, and aspartic proteinases, with the metalloproteinases representing the largest class (Fig. 1A). The metzincin family of metalloproteinases is so named for the conserved Met residue at the active site and the use of a zinc ion in the enzymatic reaction. This family comprises matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), a disintegrin and metalloproteinases (ADAMs), and ADAM proteases with thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTSs). Interest in MMPs began with the identification of an enzyme that contributes to tail resorption during tadpole metamorphosis (collagenase-1, MMP-1) (Gross and Lapiere, 1962) and increased on the discovery that these enzymes not only play a role in normal tissue remodeling but were upregulated in diverse human diseases, including chronic inflammatory disorders and cancer.Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpointFigure 1. Protease classification and structure. A, The human degradome, the repertoire of proteases produced by cells, consists of at least 569 proteases and homologs subdivided into five classes: 21 aspartic, 28 threonine, 150 cysteine, and 176 serine proteases and 194 metalloproteases, including MMP, ADAM, and ADAMTS family members. B, Structural classification of MMPs based on domain composition, including secreted and membrane-associated MMPs, and MMPs that are activated intracellularly via furin-mediated cleavage. C, Most ADAMs are type I transmembrane protein that possess disintegrin, cysteine-rich, and EGF domains in lieu of the MMP hemopexin domain. ADAMTSs are secreted proteins that contain thrombospondin I motifs in lieu of the EGF domain.