The glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptor is found integrin present in platelet aggregations. GP IIb/IIIa antagonists interfere with platelet cross-linking and platelet-derived thrombus formation through the competition with fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor. Currently, three parenteral GP IIb/IIIa competitors (tirofiban, eptifibatide, and abciximab) are approved for clinical use in patients affected by percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) in the location of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). GP IIb/IIIa antagonists have their mechanism of action in platelet aggregation prevention, distal thromboembolism, and thrombus formation, whereas the initial platelet binding to damage vascular areas is preserved. This work is aimed to provide a comprehensive review of the significance of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as a sort of antiplatelet agent. Their mechanism of action is based on factors that affect their efficacy. On the other hand, drugs that inhibit GP IIb/IIIa already approved by the FDA were reviewed in detail. Results from major clinical trials and regulatory practices and guidelines to deal with GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors were deeply investigated. The cardiovascular pathology and neuro-interventional surgical application of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as a class of antiplatelet agents were developed in detail. The therapeutic risk/benefit balance of currently available GP IIb/IIa receptor antagonists is not yet well elucidated in patients with ACS who are not clinically evaluated regularly for early cardiovascular revascularization. On the other hand, in patients who have benefited from PCI, the antiplatelet therapy intensification by the addition of a GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist (intravenously) may be an appropriate therapeutic strategy in reducing the occurrence of risks of thrombotic complications related to the intervention. Development of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors with oral administration has the potential to include short-term antiplatelet benefits compared with intravenous GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors for long-term secondary preventive therapy in cardiovascular disease. But studies showed that long-term oral administration of GP IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors has been ineffective in preventing ischemic events. Paradoxically, they have been linked to a high risk of side effects by producing prothrombotic and pro-inflammatory events.