Magnetic nanofluids are exploited in cancer therapeutics through drug delivery and cancer imaging. In addition, these kinds of nanoparticles play an interesting role in the destruction of cancerous cells without distressing the nearby strong cells by generating larger temperatures around tumors. Therefore, the intention of the present research work is to analyze the features of entropy generation toward the significant impacts of thermal radiation and magnetic field on the mixed convective incompressible flow of a tangent hyperbolic magnetite iron oxide nanofluid from a vertical impermeable plate under the effective effects of viscous dissipation and Joule heating. Here, the blood fluid is taken as a base non-Newtonian liquid for the present homogenous magnetic mixture. For simplifying the governing conservation equations, appropriate transformations are taken into account to switch correctly the resulting partial differential equations to ordinary differential equations. The converted mathematical formulations are solved numerically via an efficient algorithm based on the bvp4c method. The multiple results are marked in the range of opposing flows only. The influences of sundry physical constraints on temperature, fluid velocity and entropy are inspected by the assistance of various graphical representations. Moreover, the obtained values of the Nusselt number and skin friction coefficient are scrutinized numerically and discussed physically in detail. As the main findings, it is perceived that the Weissenberg number decelerates the nanofluid motion and enhances the temperature in both possible solutions, whereas the power-law index accelerates the generating convective flow and diminishes the temperature distribution. Besides, the entropy generation shows an increasing behavior toward the volume fraction of nanoparticles, Weissenberg number, Reynolds and Brinkman numbers in both forms of solutions, while a decreasing trend is noticed for the power-law index. A comparative analysis with the available results is performed tabularly for some limiting cases.